# Cat Behavior

There are three basic concepts from quantum mechanics that are leveraged by a quantum computer: superposition, interference, and entanglement.  

I plan on explaining superposition through one of the key differentiating factors between classical mechanics and quantum mechanics.

Let's say I gave you a ball, and I asked you to roll it down a hill. We have to note where it ends up. After performing the experiment, we conclude that the ball ended up on position X. Now, I ask you theoretically if we conducted the same experiment again with the same initialization from the hill and same conditions; nothing changes in how the experiment was done, where do you think the ball will end up? What would you bet on? Position X? Right? If nothing objectively changed, then the results shouldn't change as well. That's the logical thought process. So from the newtonian or classical point of view, you would also be right. The outcome will always be position X, no matter how many times you conduct the experiment. You might argue that the classical ball varies due to imperfect conditions. But in principle, with perfect knowledge, classical outcomes are predictable.

Let's do this again but hypothetically this time, I give you a different ball with a smaller size. I ask you to do the same experiment and we have to note where it ends up. After performing the experiment, we conclude that the ball ended up on position Y. Now, I ask you if we conducted the experiment again with the same initialization from the hill and same conditions; nothing changes in how the experiment was done, where do you think this new ball will end up? What would you bet on? Position Y? Right? If nothing objectively changed, then the results shouldn't change as well. However, this is not what happens. After performing the experiment we see that it ends up on Position S. This destroys how we logically thought that the outcome will always be position Y, no matter how many times you conduct the experiment. We recheck if the conditions or initializations changed but they were the same. And then you ask, why did this logical prediction break when you decreased the size of the object we were experimenting with? Well, this is exactly the essence of quantum mechanics and it's weird behavior that differentiates it from the classical mechanics.

Now, I ask you to repeat the experiment with the smaller ball a thousand times, and record the outcomes. Soon enough there are multiple outcomes that are possible but there are repetitions as well. Position S occurs more times than Position Y and other outcomes. Hence, you create a frequency distribution of how many times did each outcome occur. From that distribution, you can conclude a rough probability of each outcome; how likely is each outcome to occur. In this case, the Position S seems to be the most likely outcome since it is the most frequently occurring outcome. In quantum mechanics, the same experimentation preserves the probability distribution. In classical mechanics, the same experimentation preserves the specific outcome. 

Before this experiment is performed again, if I ask you what will be the certain outcome, you cannot be a 100% sure, since it can be anything out of possible outcomes, however, you can claim what the most likely outcome will be with a certain probability. This state of the object being in a genuine probability distribution of all possible states is what is referred to as the superposition. An object in superposition is an object in a number of possible states, until the measurement is performed.

However, the probability has some additional features in quantum mechanics that will be covered in the next post, further solidifying our understanding of superposition.
 
PS: I just left you in a superposition of understanding superposition.
